Add documentation for ssh key extensions with github (#10386)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/setup/guides/ssh-key-extensions.mdx

---

> title: Teleport with GitHub.

Reviewer: I think this title should be more descriptive. There's already [a guide](https://goteleport.com/docs/setup/admin/github-sso/) to using Teleport with GitHub SSO, for example—how is this different from that guide? What is it that users will achieve after completing this guide?

> description: How to use SSH key extensions with Teleport and GitHub.

Reviewer: What can users do with Teleport, GitHub, and SSH key extensions? Right now, "use" is pretty vague to me.

> h1: Use SSH Key extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think this needs to be distinct from the `title` field.

---

> 

Reviewer: At the beginning of the guide, please add a description of the feature and why it is useful.

## Prerequisites

> - Teleport v(=teleport.version) Open Source or Enterprise.

Reviewer: Does this support Teleport Cloud?

> - Teleport v(=teleport.version) Open Source or Enterprise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Open Source or Enterprise.
```

Reviewer: Should the reader also have a GitHub account? Does the account require certain permissions or a certain edition of GitHub?

> ## Step 1. Import the Teleport CA into Github

Reviewer: All step-specific headings should have a number in a format similar to `Step 1/3`.

> ## Step 1. Import the Teleport CA into Github

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1. Import the Teleport CA into GitHub
```

> In order to export the Teleport CA, execute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to export the Teleport CA, execute the following command:
```

```code

> tctl auth export > teleport.ca

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ tctl auth export > teleport.ca
```

```

> Then follow the steps outlined[here](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-git-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/managing-your-organizations-ssh-certificate-authorities),

Reviewer: Should we make it explicit that you would be pasting the contents of `teleport.ca` into the "Key" field in the "Add new" menu in GitHub?

> Then follow the steps outlined[here](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-git-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/managing-your-organizations-ssh-certificate-authorities),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, follow the instructions in the guide below to import your Teleport CA into GitHub:

[Managing your organization's SSH certificate authorities](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-git-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/managing-your-organizations-ssh-certificate-authorities)
```

to import the exported Teleport CA

> ## Step 2. Configure key extensions to be included in key generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2. Configure key extensions to be included in key generation
```

Reviewer: Let's choose a more succinct heading here. Once there's a description at the beginning of this guide of what the reader will learn and why it is useful, it should be easier to make this heading shorter, since it won't be doing as much descriptive work.

Create or update a role to include the `cert_extensions` option.

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: developer
spec:
  options:
     cert_extensions:

>        - type: ssh

Reviewer: What are the different possible values of `type`?

>          mode: extension

Reviewer: What are the different possible values of `mode`?

>          name: login@github.com

Reviewer: How would an admin for a production Teleport cluster determine how to populate this value? Would we use the same `name` for every user with the `developer` role, as suggested here?

Author: Within the context of this guide being GitHub specific, its always login@github.com only the value changes

>          value: "{{ external.logins }}"

Reviewer: We should mention the GitHub SSO guide—should configuring SSO with GitHub be a prerequisite?

```

> ## Step 3. Issue a user certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3. Issue a user certificate
```

> A user certificate may be issued with the following command 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A user certificate may be issued with the following command:
```

```code

> tctl auth sign --out out.cer --user=$USERNAME

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ tctl auth sign --out out.cer --user=$USERNAME
```

Reviewer: How would we determine a value for `$USERNAME`?

> ```

Reviewer: What would we do with the user certificate once we issue it?

Author: I need to test with an actual GitHub enterprise instance, but as far as I know it would be specified as a key to use for github.com in .ssh/config so git can be made aware of it, however I need to make sure.

```
Host github.com
 HostName github.com
 IdentityFile out.cer
```

---
title: Using Teleport CA with Github.

> description:  How to use Teleport SSH short lived certificates with GitHub.

Reviewer 2: After reading this description I still don't know what it means.

Are we using teleport certificates to authenticate with GitHub?

Author: I've made this `How to use Teleport SSH short lived certificates with the GitHubs Certificate Authority.` Would this improve clarity?

---

> Teleport supports exporting user SSH certificates with configurable key extensions, this allows the Teleport CA to be used in conjunction with GitHubs support for SSH Certificate Authorities to allow users to access their organizations repositories with short lived, signed SSH keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Teleport supports exporting user SSH certificates with configurable key extensions, this allows the Teleport CA to be used in conjunction with GitHub's support for SSH Certificate Authorities to allow users to access their organizations repositories with short lived, signed SSH certificates.
```

Keys or certificates?

Author: I think keys makes sense here, they'd be the keys that the user would be using with git/ssh, I'm not sure though

Reviewer: In addition to Zac's suggestions:

```suggestion
Teleport supports exporting user SSH certificates with configurable key extensions. This allows the Teleport CA to be used in conjunction with GitHubs support for SSH Certificate Authorities. This way, users can access their organizations' repositories with short-lived, signed SSH keys.
```

---
title: Using Teleport's Certificate Authority with GitHub

> description:  How to use Teleport's short lived SSH certificates with the GitHub Certificate Authority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description:  How to use Teleport's short-lived SSH certificates with the GitHub Certificate Authority.
```

---

Teleport supports exporting user SSH certificates with configurable key extensions, this allows the Teleport CA to be used in conjunction with GitHubs support for SSH Certificate Authorities to allow users to access their organizations repositories with short lived, signed SSH keys.

## Prerequisites

> - Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Open Source or Enterprise.

Reviewer: Since this feature is supported in Teleport Cloud, I think we should change this item to something like, "The Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service v(=teleport.version=), either self hosted or deployed on Teleport Cloud."

> - Telport with [GitHub SSO configured](../admin/github-sso.mdx).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The GitHub SSO authentication connector. For more information, see [GitHub SSO](../admin/github-sso.mdx).
```
Since a Teleport installation is already a prerequisite.

> - Access to GitHub enterprise and permisions to modify GitHub SSH Certificate authorities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to GitHub Enterprise and permissions to modify GitHub's SSH Certificate Authorities.
```

## Step 1/3. Import the Teleport CA into GitHub

In order to export the Teleport CA, execute the following command:

```code
$ tctl auth export --type=user | sed 's/^cert-authority //g'
```

> Next follow the instructions in the guide below to import your Teleport CA into GitHUB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, follow the instructions in the guide below to import your Teleport CA into GitHub:
```

[Managing your organization's SSH certificate authorities](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-git-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/managing-your-organizations-ssh-certificate-authorities)

The contents of the exported `teleport.ca` file should by pasted into the "Key" field after clicking "New CA".

## Step 2/3. Configure the GitHub key extension

> Create or update a role to include the `cert_extensions` option, in order to interact with the support GitHub has for  SSH CAs, the name value here must be `login@github.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create or update a role to include the `cert_extensions` option. The value of `name` must be `login@github.com`.
```
Suggested tightening this sentence up by removing a detail the guide has already established.

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: developer
spec:
  options:
     cert_extensions:
       - type: ssh
         mode: extension
         name: login@github.com
         value: "{{ external.logins }}"
```

## Step 3/3. Issue a user certificate

> A user certificate may be issued with the following command, where `<USERNAME>` is the Teleport user to generate the ssh certificate for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A user certificate may be issued with the following command, where `<USERNAME>` is the Teleport user to generate the SSH certificate for:
```

```code
$ tctl auth sign --out out.cer --user=<USERNAME>
```

> To test that authentication with this signed certificate is working correctly, ssh to github.com with your organizations user:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test that authentication with this signed certificate is working correctly, SSH into `github.com` with your organization's user:
```

```code

> ssh -i out.cer org-<ID>@github.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ssh -i out.cer org-<ID>@github.com
```

```
If authentication is successful,  a "You've successfully authenticated" message should be displayed in the terminal.

> This newly generated certificate may then be used when interacting with GitHub over SSH by adding the following to the `~/.ssh/config` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This newly generated certificate may then be used when interacting with GitHub over SSH by adding the following to the `~/.ssh/config` file:
```

```code
Host github.com
 HostName github.com
 IdentityFile path/to/out.cer
```

> When using SSH Certificate authorities, the SSH url used should be retreived from the GitHub repository as mentioned [here](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-git-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/about-ssh-certificate-authorities#about-ssh-urls-with-ssh-certificates) so the correct SSH user is used for authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using SSH Certificate Authorities, you should retrieve your GitHub repository's SSH URL from the GitHub UI so the correct SSH user is used for authentication. For more information, see [About SSH URLs with SSH certificates](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-git-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/about-ssh-certificate-authorities#about-ssh-urls-with-ssh-certificates).
```
